# Scaffolding your App

In this chapter we'll create our Rails app, or the basic scaffold of it at least.

## Run Rails new

Once you have installed the Rails Gem you now have access to Rails commands.

Let's use a simple but powerful one, ```rails new```.

This command creates the basic Rails app boilerplate. In your terminal, run the following command:

```
$ rails new approach
```

This command will create an approach directory which inside will contain all of the files and directories needed to create a rails app.

Your command will also install some gems.

Move into your new application's directory.

```
$ cd approach
```


## Set up the gemfile

Remove the Coffeescript gem. Your cleaned up gemfile should look something like:

```
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'rails', '4.2.5'
gem 'sqlite3'
gem 'sass-rails', '~> 5.0'
gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.3.0'
gem 'jquery-rails'
gem 'turbolinks'
gem 'jbuilder', '~> 2.0'
gem 'sdoc', '~> 0.4.0', group: :doc

# Use ActiveModel has_secure_password
# gem 'bcrypt', '~> 3.1.7'

group :development, :test do
  gem 'byebug'
end

group :development do
  gem 'web-console', '~> 2.0'
  gem 'spring'
end
```

if it isn't identical, that should be fine. 

We are removing the coffeescript gem because it generates ```.coffee``` files rather than ```.js``` files

## Bundle Install

## Install Sqlite

In this book we are going to use Sqlite.

Sqlite is a SQL database that creates a local ```.sqlite``` file on your fileserver which stores your database.

Sqlite is basically what powers Android applications. It is not as robust or scalable as MySQL or Postgresql but if your app is small, it will be more than good enough. [For more information about when to use Sqlite, see the Sqlite website](https://www.sqlite.org/whentouse.html)

To install Sqlite, [you need to download the file for your distribution from the website](https://www.sqlite.org/download.html) and install it.

If you have a problem getting sqlite to run, google ```install sqlite {{your operating system}}``` which should return decent documentation.

#### Installing Sqlite on Debian and Ubuntu

To install Sqlite on Debian systems, including Ubuntu, it is a case of using the ```apt-get``` system. Run the following command:

```
$ sudo apt-get install sqlite3 libsqlite3-dev
```

#### Installing Sqlite on Codio

If you are using Codio to follow along with this tutorial, run the following command:

```
$ parts install sqlite3
```

#### Installing Sqlite on Windows

## Connect the database

## Create the DB using Rake

## Run Rails S