# Creating your Static Marketing Page

In this section we will cover creating a static marketing page for our app. This will include the form we'll use for our app, though we won't wire it up to save messages to the database just yet.

By the end of this chapter we'll have covered:

- Creating static pages in Rails
- Setting up routes
- creating controllers
- creating views
- Installing Bootstrap
- Writing a little bit of Sass, the CSS preprocessor
- Mocking up our application's form

## Creating a basic Controller

1. The MVC idea

You may have heard a lot about the MVC pattern as you've started to look into Rails and other web frameworks. It is both an important concept and something that will soon be so natural you'll eventually work within it without thinking about it too much.

The Model View Controller idea is just a theory where you separate your application's code into distinct files or types of files. It is what guides the Rails file structure.

> We'll not cover the theory of MVC in-depth in this book. We'll focus primarily on using the pattern. 

In regard to Rails, your Model is essentially the code that manages how things are saved to your database. The code that refers to how you shape or transform things before they are saved into your database.

The controller is the glue code between your model and the views and routes. That is, your controller in Rails, tells your app which HTML to render when a certain route or web address is visited and what steps to go through when a certain action is triggered. So, when someone wants to save a new blog post, it is your controller which lays out the process to save any form input (with your model code the place where any input is checked before it is saved into the database and how the data is manipulated or transformed before it is saved).

Your views are basically the things a client or user sees. The bare HTML and CSS. The outward appearance of things.

The MVC pattern is just a guideline. It is not a do or die thing and as a developer you'll end up creating things that could live in either the M or C and it will be up to you to decide which place it lives (and no decision will actually be correct, but based on what you or the team you are in prefers!).

In short then:

+ _M_ is the Model, which is your code that defines the data concept. In practical terms, that is what fields are saved to your database, how they are validated etc.
+ _V_ is the View, the code that controls the externally viewable product. In practical terms, this is your HTML, CSS and JavaScript code
+ _C_ is the Controller, the code that binds the view and model together and connects the two. In practical terms, your controller code tells Rails which view to render and what processes to go through and what data to provide to your view.

As you can see, the MVC pattern is a way to organize your code into separate chunks with distinct but interconnecting jobs. Let's start jumping into Rails by creating our first controller.

To generate a controller you can run the following command:

```
rails g controller {name of controller} {additional options}
```

The `g` in this command stands for generate (you can also run this command using the full word generate, though the shorthand avoids typos).

We'll create a marketing page controller. The Rails Controller naming convention is to use plural names for controllers (and singular names for models) so let's call our controller MarketingPages. This will mean our controller will be called the snappy title of `MarketingPagesController`.

To generate our controller, run the following command:

```sh
rails g controller MarketingPages index
```

Here we have generated our MarketingPages controller and offered the additional option or command of index. This just makes a method (or "function") called index within our controller for us.

After we've run this command you should see the command return the following output:

```sh
create  app/controllers/marketing_pages_controller.rb                                                                                                        
route  get 'marketing_pages/index'                                                                                                                          
invoke  erb                                                                                                                                                  
create    app/views/marketing_pages                                                                                                                          
create    app/views/marketing_pages/index.html.erb                                                                                                           
invoke  test_unit                                                                                                                                            
create    test/controllers/marketing_pages_controller_test.rb                                                                                                
invoke  helper                                                                                                                                               
create    app/helpers/marketing_pages_helper.rb                                                                                                              
invoke    test_unit                                                                                                                                          
invoke  assets                                                                                                                                               
invoke    js                                                                                                                                                 
create      app/assets/javascripts/marketing_pages.js                                                                                                        
invoke    scss                                                                                                                                               
create      app/assets/stylesheets/marketing_pages.scss 
```

Here our Rails command has seemingly created a rather confusing amount of files. Let's go through what has happened:

1. First, using our controller name of "MarketingPages" Rails has created a corresponding file called `marketing_pages_controller.rb` - this is based on conventions Rails expects us to follow
2. The second line refers to our route file, located in config/routes.rb, where Rails has added the single route of /marketing_pages/index
3. Invoking, or rather using, the ERB template language rails creates a folder to hold our marketing_pages files and a single index.html.erb view files
4. Rails then invokes the test_unit gem to create a test files
5. Rails then invokes the helper method to create a helper file (we'll cover helpers much later)
6. Rails then creates some assets, first a JavaScript file called `marketing_pages.js` and then a Scss file called `marketing_pages.scss`

Every time you generate a controller using the ```Rails g controller``` command you'll see something similar. The main highlights are:

1. Creates a file for our MarketingPages controller code to live in ( located here: `app/controllers/marketing_pages_controller.rb`)
2. Inside that file, creates a method called index
3. Updates our routes.rb file with a route to visit our MarketingPages index method (Our routes are found in config/routes.rb)
4. Creates the related .html.erb file for our index controller method, called index.html.erb located in a dedicated app/views/marketing_pages folder
5. Creates some asset files for our app inside app/assets, namely a `.scss` and `.js` file named again after our controller

Rails is a framework that relies on conventions. That is, many things are wired up in the same way across all Rails apps. So, once you get used to the "Rails Way" you'll know where to write specific code and where to find specific files

Let's see this newly generated controller in action.

If you have your Rails server still running visit your app's file with the route of: `/marketing_pages/index`. So, if you are on a local machine that URL is:

```
localhost:3000/marketing_pages/index
```

If your rails server isn't still running, start your server with `rails s` and visit that URL.

> If you want to know what routes you can visit with your app, you can just run the `rake routes` command in your app's root directory and you will get a handy list of available URLs.

You'll no doubt see the rather exciting default generated message. 

Although this seems like magic, your routes.rb file handles the route and by convention Rails looks for a controller called MarketingPagesController and a method inside that file called index.

Again, by convention Rails takes any method - not designated as private etc. - and looks for a corresponding .html file in your views directory. Through naming convention, and not by magic, we get a __magical__ development experience.

Open up your controller's view file located here `app/views/marketing_pages/index.html.erb` and make the following edit:

```html
<h1>MarketingPages#index</h1>
<p>In the Ruby and Rails world the # symbol can mean a method within a class</p>
<p>Find me in app/views/marketing_pages/index.html.erb</p>
```

Refresh your page and see our new message. Lovely.

Let's do something in our controller. We are going to use Rails' in-built system for creating alert or "flash" messages. 

Open our `marketing_pages_controller.rb` file.

Inside that file you'll see our bare-bones class with our index method:

```rb
class MarketingPagesController < ApplicationController
  
  def index
  end
  
end
```

Let's add some code to our index method. Expand our index method by writing the following:

```rb
def index
  flash.now[:sing] = "FLASH; AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!"
end
```

Here we have used the in-built Rails utility of flash to flash a message immediately (the `.now` means well, flash the message now. Without the .now the message will only flash after a redirect)

We then add a "hash" with the symbol of `:sing` with a value set to our "witty" lyrics. The `:sing` symbol can be anything we like, it makes sense to use straightforward names like `:error`, `:alert` etc. when sending error messages or alerts to users.

In our case, we just want to sing at our users.

If we refresh our page now, we'll see nothing. We have now added a message to our controller method, but not rendered it.

To render our flash message we need to go back to our view file and add the code to handle flash messages.

In our `app/views/marketing_pages/index.html.erb` file add the following:

```erb
 <% flash.each do |name, msg| %>
  <%= content_tag :p, msg, id: name %>
 <% end %>
```

Refresh the page, and you should now see our message.

> Let's breakdown that erb we just wrote. In Rails the default templating language is erb. erb let's you write ruby between the <% %> in your html views.
> Tags with an equals sign like so `<%= %>` with output HTML whilst tags with no equal sign we just be evaluated but not outputted to your HTML.
> What this means simply is, code within <% %> lets you set up your code by called your flash method and ending your flash code block whereas code withing `<%= %>` with be "printed" out into your browser.
> So in this tag, we first access the flash hash and print out `.each` message, placing the name of our hash into the name variable and body of our message into the msg variable and using those in our second line to output some HTML within a p HTML tag.

Fantastic, we now have the following HTML injected into our webpage:

```html
<p id="sing">FLASH; AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!</p>
```

Play with this feature by creating a few more messages.



3. How to generate one

4. building our homepage

## Adding a route

basic routing

create our homepage route

creating our root route

## Updating your Views

how views work

updating our layout

updating our view

## Installing Bootstrap

adding the bootstrap gem

setting up the files

## Writing some Sass

making application.css .scss

tweaking the variables

## Creating the form

